# Quickstart Playground Tests
If your code affects Quickstart Playground, please manually verify these scenarios.

## Scenarios
Please make sure to verify all of these scenarios. These apply to both Windows 10 and Windows 11.

### First Run and First Setup Experience
1. User receives Dev Home Azure Extension when Quickstart Playground is turned on
    1. Navigate to 'Settings -> Experimental features', and validate that Quickstart Playground is off by default. Then turn it on.
    1. Validate that the Dev Home Azure extension is brought down as part of turning on the feature. When the extension is ultimately installed, you should see a toast notification from the Store.
1. User can set up dependencies and API key for Quickstart Playground
    1. Navigate to the machine configuration page and you should see a button for the Quickstart Playground feature. Click on that entry. 
    1. Select the Dev Container with OpenAI extension from the ComboBox.
    1. You should see a ContentDialog with an Adaptive Card guiding you to install any missing dependencies (i.e., Visual Studio Code, Docker Desktop, Remote Containers extension)
    1. Use the download links to set up any  missing dependencies, accepting all defaults.
    1. If Docker Desktop was installed, you'll need to reboot the system, manually re-launch Dev Home, and navigate back to the Quickstart Playground page. 
    1. Once all of the application dependencies have been set up, you will see another Adaptive Card for entering in the OpenAI API key. Enter your key into the PasswordTextBox shown to you by the card.
1. User does not see Dependency Checker in Quickstart Playground once all dependencies are configured
    1. Navigate away from the page and navigate back to validate that there are no additional Adaptive Cards displayed, thereby indicating that setup for the feature is complete.

### Core Feature (Feature is Enabled and Configured)
1. User can generate a project in Quickstart Playground using a sample prompt 
    1. From the left-hand navigation menu in the application, click on the Machine configuration entry.  
    1. Click on the "Quickstart Playground" entry in the list and choose the Dev Container with OpenAI extension.
    1. You will see a TextBox where you can enter in a prompt for a project that you’d like to create. 
    1. Try clicking on a sample prompt. You should see the text entered in the TextBox.   
    1. Click the Generate button. This will use a language model from OpenAI to generate the project.  
    1. Once the operation is completed, you will see a list of files organized by directory that correspond to the sample project generated by the tool.   
    1. You should be able to click on a file to view a lightweight preview of its contents.  
    1. You can choose to save the project, launch it in Visual Studio Code, Cancel out of the flow, or start again with a new prompt.  
    1. Launch the project in Visual Studio Code. 
    1. Visual Studio Code will prompt you to confirm if you trust the folder, which you can click on- and then from there the remote containers extension will ask you if you would like to re-open the project in the container
    1. If you don't have Docker already running, Visual Studio Code will start it as part of opening the project, and you can click on 'Show logs' in the notification to see what Docker is doing. 
    1. Try building and running the project once Visual Studio Code has finished opening it in the container.
1. User can generate a project in Quickstart Playground using a custom prompt
    1. Enter in a new prompt into the TextBox and click Generate (e.g., "Create an environment for writing console apps in Rust"). 
    1. Validate that the project gets produced successfully and can be opened in Visual Studio Code (similar steps as in the sample prompt test case)
1. User can locally save a project produced by Quickstart Playground
    1. Click the Save button in the Dev Home UI to validate that you can save a project to a location on the file system.
1. User can submit feedback on a Quickstart Playground project using the Like / Dislike buttons
1. User can click on the 'Generated based on example' link to view the project that was used a reference by Quickstart Playground.
1. User can clear their API key
    1. Navigate to the settings for the Dev Home Azure Extension and click on the button to reset the API key.
    1. Verify that navigating back to the Quickstart Playground page prompts for the key to be re-entered.